Sample chemical hazard incident strings

A mixture of acetone and chloroform in a residue bottle exploded. Since addition of chloroform to acetone in presence of a base will result in a highly exothermic reaction, it is thought that a base may have been in the bottle.

Phosphine, hydrogen sulfide, and selenide all ignite when fuming nitric acid is dripped into the gas. 
Mixtures of fuming nitric acid and acetonitrile are explosive.

Hydrogen telluride ignites with cold concentrated nitric acid, sometimes exploding.

Frozen bromine trifluoride reacts violently with toluene at -80 deg C.

Allyl chloride or other alkyl halides will react vigorously with benzene or toluene, even at minus 70 C in the presence of ethyl aluminum dichloride or ethyl aluminum sesquichloride. Explosions have been reported.

A 2% solution /dioxygen difluoride/ in hydrogen fluoride ignites solid benzene at -78 deg C.

A mixture of aluminum powder with ammonium persulfate powder and water may cause an explosion.

Aluminum powder burns in chlorine, even at 20 deg C.

Heating cyclopentanone oxime with 85% sulfuric acid to effect the Beckmann rearrangement caused eruption of the stirred flask contents.

A mixture of acetonitrile and sulfuric acid on heating (or self heating) to 53 deg C underwent an uncontrollable exotherm to 160 deg C in a few seconds. The presence of 28 mol % of sulfur trioxide reduces the initiation temperature to about 15 deg C. Polymerization of acetonitrile is suspected.

Acetone ignited when it was accidentally splashed into a sulfuric acid-dichromate solution.

Mixing acetic anhydride and 96% sulfuric acid in a closed container caused the temperature and pressure to increase.

A dilute aqueous solution of sulfuric acid reacts with sodium with explosive violence.

Moist silver permanganate stored for drying in a desiccator over sulfuric acid under vacuum produced a strong explosion.

The violent reaction which occurred on dissolution of the anhydrous salt in acetonitrile did not occur with the hydrated salt /of iron(III) perchlorate/.

Shaking a slow-reacting mixture /of dinitrogen tetraoxide, acetonitrile and indium/ caused detonation, attributed to indium-catalysed oxidation of acetonitrile.

When heated to decomposition, acetonitrile produces deadly toxic hydrogen cyanide gas and oxides of nitrogen.

When fluorine was condensed onto acetonitrile and chlorine fluoride frozen at -196 deg C, a small explosion occurred in the reactor.


